RHDEVDOCS-4470 - Added 1.7.0 release notes (#53541)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-release-notes-1-7-0.adoc

* With this update, you can choose the RBAC policy matcher mode. There are currently two options `glob` and `regex`. `Glob` is the default.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1975[GITOPS-1975]

* With this update, you can customize resource behavior through the use of additional subkeys. These subkeys are `resourceHealthChecks`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences` and `resourceActions`. Each of the subkeys maps directly to their own field in the `argocd-cm` so `resourceHealthChecks` will map to `resource.customizations.health`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences` to `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences`, and `resourceActions` to `resource.customizations.actions`.

Eventually, the old method of customizing resource behavior through `resourceCustomization` (without subkeys) will be deprecated.

Keys for `resourceHealthChecks`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences`, and `resourceActions` are in the form (respectively): `resource.customizations.health.<group_kind>`, `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences.<group_kind>`, and `resource.customizations.actions.<group_kind>`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1561[GITOPS-1561]

> * With this update, to use the *Environments* feature on the *Developer* tab you will be forced to update if you are on {gitops-title} lower than 1.7 and {product-title} lower than or on 4.15. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2415[GITOPS-2415] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, to use the *Environments* feature on the *Developer* tab you will be forced to upgrade if you are on {gitops-title} lower than 1.7 and {product-title} higher than or on 4.15. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2415[GITOPS-2415] 
```

* Before this update, {gitops-title} can make use of RHSSO (KeyCloak) through OIDC in addition to Dex. However, with a recent security fix applied, the certificate of RHSSO cannot be validated when it is setup with a certificate which is not signed by one of the well known certificate authorities. This update, fixes this issue and you can provide a custom certificate which will be used in verifying the Keycloak's TLS certificate when communicating with it. You can add the `rootCA` to their Argo CD custom resource `.spec.keycloak.rootCA` field. The operator reconciles to this change and updates the `oidc.config` in `argocd-cm` configmap with the PEM encoded root certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2214[GITOPS-2214]

* Before this update, the application controllers were restarted multiple times in a large set of applications caused due to unresponsiveness of liveness probes. This update fixes this issue by removing the liveness probe in the application controller `statefulset`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2153[GITOPS-2153]

> * Before this update, applications were created only in the same namespace of the ArgoCD instance. This update fixes this issue and now applications can be created in any namespace in the same cluster and still managed by the same control-plane’s ArgoCD instance by adding a new label `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` to the namespace added in `spec.sourceNamespaces` of the Argo CD custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2341[GITOPS-2341]

Reviewer 2: Please mention that this feature is a technical preview feature which is inline with our upstream Argo CD.

> * Before this update, applications were created only in the same namespace of the ArgoCD instance. This update fixes this issue and now applications can be created in any namespace in the same cluster and still managed by the same control-plane’s ArgoCD instance by adding a new label `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` to the namespace added in `spec.sourceNamespaces` of the Argo CD custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2341[GITOPS-2341]

Reviewer 2: This is a feature not fix

[id="known-issues-1-7-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * When you create an argo CD instance in a particular namespace, repo server has default as the ** default ** service account. If you add a new service account in Argo CD custom resource, it gets reflected in the repo server deployment. But while deleting the *serviceaccount* field from Argo CD custom resource repo setting, the Operator does not reconcile and the it might end up having a service account in repo server deployment that might not even be existing. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2452[GITOPS-2452]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, operator was not reconciling **mountsatoken** and **serviceaccount** settings for the repository server. While this has been fixed link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1873[GITOPS-1873], deletion of **serviceaccount** does not revert the ServiceAccount to **default**. A workaround for this is manually setting spec.repo.serviceaccount to **default** ServiceAccount.
```

cc: @wtam2018 @iam-veeramalla please suggest

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-7-0_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.7.0

{gitops-title} 1.7.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.8, 4.9, 4.10 and 4.11.

[id="new-features-1-7-0_{context}"]
== New features

The current release adds the following improvements:

> * With this update, you can add environmental variables to the Notifications controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2313[GITOPS-2313]

Reviewer 3: I think it will be `environment variables`. Please double-check with the SMEs.

> * With this update, the default `nodeSelector "kubernetes.io/os": "linux"` will be added to all the workloads such that they only schedule on Linux nodes. Also any custom `nodeSelectors` are added to the default and take precedence if the key is same. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2215[GITOPS-2215]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* With this update, the default `nodeSelector "kubernetes.io/os": "linux"` key-value pair is added to all workloads such that they only schedule on Linux nodes. In addition, any custom node selectors are added to the default and take precedence if they have the same key.

* With this update, you can set custom `nodeSelectors` in the Operator workloads by editing their `GitopsService` custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2164[GITOPS-2164]

> * With this update, you can choose the RBAC policy matcher mode. There are currently two options `glob` and `regex`. `Glob` is the default.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1975[GITOPS-1975]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* With this update, you can use the RBAC policy matcher mode to select from the following options: `glob` (default) and `regex`.

> * With this update, you can customize resource behavior through the use of additional subkeys. These subkeys are `resourceHealthChecks`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences` and `resourceActions`. Each of the subkeys maps directly to their own field in the `argocd-cm` so `resourceHealthChecks` will map to `resource.customizations.health`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences` to `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences`, and `resourceActions` to `resource.customizations.actions`.

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* With this update, you can customize resource behavior using the following additional subkeys:
+
|===
| *Subkey* | *Key form* | *Mapped field in `argocd-cm`*
| `resourceHealthChecks` | `resource.customizations.health.<group_kind>` | `resource.customizations.health`
| `resourceIgnoreDifferences` | `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences.<group_kind>` | `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences`
| `resourceActions` | `resource.customizations.actions.<group_kind>` | `resource.customizations.actions`
|===
+
[NOTE]
====
In future releases, there is a possibility to deprecate the old method of customizing resource behavior by using only `resourceCustomization` and not subkeys.
====

Eventually, the old method of customizing resource behavior through `resourceCustomization` (without subkeys) will be deprecated.

Keys for `resourceHealthChecks`, `resourceIgnoreDifferences`, and `resourceActions` are in the form (respectively): `resource.customizations.health.<group_kind>`, `resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences.<group_kind>`, and `resource.customizations.actions.<group_kind>`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1561[GITOPS-1561]

> * With this update, to use the *Environments* feature on the *Developer* tab you will be forced to upgrade if you are on {gitops-title} lower than 1.7 and {product-title} higher than or on 4.15. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2415[GITOPS-2415] 

Reviewer 3: The wordings around the versions seems to be complicated. Can we simplify it?

> * With this update, applications can be created in any namespace in the same cluster and still managed by the same control-plane’s ArgoCD instance by adding a new label `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` to the namespace added in `spec.sourceNamespaces` of the Argo CD custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2341[GITOPS-2341]

Reviewer 3: I suggest breaking down the sentence for better readability.

:FeatureName: Argo CD Applications controller
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="fixed-issues-1-7-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

The following issues have been resolved in the current release:

* From {product-title} 4.12, the console installation will be optional. This fix updates {gitops-title} Operator to prevent problems with the operator if the console is not installed.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2292[GITOPS-2292]

> * Before this update, {gitops-title} releases were affected by an issue with dex pods failing with `CreateContainerConfigError` when a `SCC` of `anyuid` is assigned to the dex `serviceAccount`. This update fixes this issue by assigning a default user id to the dex container. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2235[GITOPS-2235]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* Before this update, {gitops-title} releases were affected by an issue of dex pods failing with `CreateContainerConfigError` error when the `anyuid` SCC was assigned to the dex service account`. This update fixes the issue by assigning a default user id to the dex container.

> * Before this update, {gitops-title} can make use of RHSSO (KeyCloak) through OIDC in addition to Dex. However, with a recent security fix applied, the certificate of RHSSO cannot be validated when it is setup with a certificate which is not signed by one of the well known certificate authorities. This update, fixes this issue and you can provide a custom certificate which will be used in verifying the Keycloak's TLS certificate when communicating with it. You can add the `rootCA` to their Argo CD custom resource `.spec.keycloak.rootCA` field. The operator reconciles to this change and updates the `oidc.config` in `argocd-cm` configmap with the PEM encoded root certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2214[GITOPS-2214]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* Before this update, {gitops-title} used the RHSSO (KeyCloak) through OIDC in addition to Dex. However, with a recent security fix, the certificate of RHSSO could not be validated when configured with a certificate not signed by one of the well known certificate authorities. This update fixes the issue; you can provide a custom certificate to verify the KeyCloak's TLS certificate while communicating with it. In addition, you can add `rootCA` to their Argo CD custom resource `.spec.keycloak.rootCA` field. The Operator reconciles such changes and updates the `oidc.config` in `argocd-cm` config map with the PEM encoded root certificate.

> * Before this update, the application controllers were restarted multiple times in a large set of applications caused due to unresponsiveness of liveness probes. This update fixes this issue by removing the liveness probe in the application controller `statefulset`. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2153[GITOPS-2153]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* Before this update, the application controllers restarted multiple times due to the unresponsiveness of liveness probes. This update fixes the issue by removing the liveness probe in the `statefulset` application controller.

[id="known-issues-1-7-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * Before this update, operator was not reconciling **mountsatoken** and ServiceAccount settings for the repository server. While this has been fixed, deletion of ServiceAccount does not revert to default. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1873[GITOPS-1873]

Reviewer 3: Suggested version:

* Before this update, the Operator did not reconcile the **mountsatoken** and `ServiceAccount` settings for the repository server. While this has been fixed, deletion of the service account does not revert to default.
+
Workaround: Manually set the ``spec.repo.serviceaccount` field to the `default` service account.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * gitops/gitops-release-notes.adoc
:_content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-7-0_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.7.0

> {gitops-title} 1.7.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.8, 4.9, 4.10 and 4.11.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
{gitops-title} 1.7.0 is now available on {product-title} 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, and 4.11.
```
Per ISG: Use the Oxford comma for items in a series.

[id="new-features-1-7-0_{context}"]
== New features

The current release adds the following improvements:

* With this update, you can add environment variables to the Notifications controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2313[GITOPS-2313]

* With this update, the default nodeSelector `"kubernetes.io/os": "linux"` key-value pair is added to all workloads such that they only schedule on Linux nodes. In addition, any custom node selectors are added to the default and take precedence if they have the same key. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2215[GITOPS-2215]

* With this update, you can set custom node selectors in the Operator workloads by editing their `GitopsService` custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2164[GITOPS-2164]

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

* With this update, you can use the RBAC policy matcher mode to select from the following options: `glob` (default) and `regex`.link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1975[GITOPS-1975]

* With this update, you can customize resource behavior using the following additional subkeys:

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```
The table should be aligned with the previous bulleted item

> |===

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[options=header]
|===
```
Format the first row of the table as a header.

| Subkey | Key form | Mapped field in argocd-cm
| resourceHealthChecks | resource.customizations.health.<group_kind> | resource.customizations.health
| resourceIgnoreDifferences | resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences.<group_kind> | resource.customizations.ignoreDifferences
| resourceActions | resource.customizations.actions.<group_kind> | resource.customizations.actions
|===
+
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1561[GITOPS-1561]
+

> [NOTE]

Reviewer 4: There's a rendering issue in the preview where the `+` signs are displaying. Maybe adding the `+` in line 26 will fix it.

====
In future releases, there is a possibility to deprecate the old method of customizing resource behavior by using only resourceCustomization and not subkeys.
====

> * With this update, to use the *Environments* feature on the *Developer* tab you will be forced to upgrade if you are on {gitops-title} below 1.7 and {product-title} above or on 4.15. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2415[GITOPS-2415] 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* With this update, to use the *Environments* feature on the *Developer* tab you must upgrade if you are using a {gitops-title} version prior to 1.7 and {product-title} 4.15 or above. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2415[GITOPS-2415] 
```
- consider replacing `will be forced to` with `must`
- rewrite awkward syntax referring to version prerequisites

* With this update, applications can be created in any namespace in the same cluster and still managed by the same control-plane’s ArgoCD instance. This is done by adding a new label `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` to the namespace added in `spec.sourceNamespaces` of the Argo CD custom resource. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2341[GITOPS-2341]

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```
The TP admonition needs to align with the previous bulleted item

:FeatureName: Argo CD Applications controller
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

[id="fixed-issues-1-7-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

The following issues have been resolved in the current release:

> * Before this update, {gitops-title} releases were affected by an issue of dex pods failing with `CreateContainerConfigError` error when the `anyuid` SCC was assigned to the dex service account. This update fixes the issue by assigning a default user id to the dex container. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2235[GITOPS-2235]

Reviewer 4: Should `dex` be capitalized here? You capitalize it in the next item.

Author: capitalized

> * Before this update, {gitops-title} used the RHSSO (Keycloak) through OIDC in addition to Dex. However, with a recent security fix, the certificate of RHSSO could not be validated when configured with a certificate not signed by one of the well known certificate authorities. This update fixes the issue; you can provide a custom certificate to verify the KeyCloak's TLS certificate while communicating with it. In addition, you can add `rootCA` to their Argo CD custom resource ``.spec.keycloak.rootCA` field. The Operator reconciles such changes and updates the `oidc.config in argocd-cm` config map with the PEM encoded root certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2214[GITOPS-2214]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Before this update, {gitops-title} used the RHSSO (Keycloak) through OIDC in addition to Dex. However, with a recent security fix, the certificate of RHSSO could not be validated when configured with a certificate not signed by one of the well known certificate authorities. This update fixes the issue; you can provide a custom certificate to verify the KeyCloak's TLS certificate while communicating with it. In addition, you can add `rootCA` to the Argo CD custom resource `.spec.keycloak.rootCA` field. The Operator reconciles such changes and updates the `oidc.config in argocd-cm` config map with the PEM encoded root certificate. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2214[GITOPS-2214]
```
- not sure what `their` refers to. Should it be `the`?
- Looks like there's an extra back tick that should be omitted.

Reviewer 2: @DebarghoGhosh can you please add the below 

An example Argo CD with Keycloak configuration should look something below

```
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd
spec:
  sso:
    keycloak:
      rootCA: ''
    provider: keycloak
.......
.......
```

* Before this update, the application controllers restarted multiple times due to the unresponsiveness of liveness probes. This update fixes the issue by removing the liveness probe in the `statefulset` application controller. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-2153[GITOPS-2153]

[id="known-issues-1-7-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * Before this update, the Operator did not reconcile the `mountsatoken` and ServiceAccount settings for the repository server. While this has been fixed, deletion of the service account does not revert to default. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1873[GITOPS-1873]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the Operator did not reconcile the `mountsatoken` and `ServiceAccount` settings for the repository server. While this has been fixed, deletion of the service account does not revert to default. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-1873[GITOPS-1873]
```

Should `ServiceAccount` be in back ticks? Or edit to say `service account`?

Author: back ticks
